Biden nominates Space Force generals for promotion
 WASHINGTON — President Biden on July 11 submitted to the U.S. Senate the nominations of two threestar Space Force leaders for promotion to fourstar generals. Lt. Gen. Stephen Whiting, commander of the Space Force's Space Operations Command; and Lt. Gen. Michael Guetlein, commander of the Space Force's Space Systems Command, have been nominated to the rank of general and to receive a fourth star. Whiting is expected to become the next commander of U.S. Space Command, replacing Gen. James Dickinson. The White House also submitted the nomination of Lt. Gen. Philip Garrant, deputy chief of space operations for strategy, plans, programs and requirements, to a new assignment at the same rank. Garrant is expected to replace Guetlein as the commander of the Space Systems Command, based in Los Angeles. Block on military nominations If the Space Force nominations are approved by the Senate Armed Services Committee, it's unclear when they will reach the Senate floor.

Second Israeli lunar lander faces funding uncertainty
 WASHINGTON — As India prepares to launch its second lunar lander mission, the fate of a second Israeli lander is in doubt after the organization developing it lost a major source of funding. India's Chandrayaan3 spacecraft is scheduled to launch July 14 on a Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle Mark 3, also known as LVM3, from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre. The spacecraft will gradually go from a geostationary transfer orbit to a low lunar orbit, from which Chandrayaan3 will descend to the lunar surface. Chandrayaan3 is similar to India's first lunar lander flown as part of the Chandrayaan2 mission, which crashed attempting a soft landing in September 2019. Chandrayaan3 incorporates several revisions, such as additional fuel, based on the investigation into the failed landing. That crash took place five months after Beresheet, a spacecraft originally developed by Israeli nonprofit organization SpaceIL to compete for the Google Lunar X Prize, crashed attempting its own lunar landing. SpaceIL and Israel Aerospace Industries, which built the spacecraft, later said the lander crashed because one of its inertial measurement units malfunctioned. SpaceIL announced its intent to pursue a second mission, called Beresheet 2. The mission had been slated to launch in 2025, a date confirmed in a January 2023 announcement of a joint statement of intent between the Israel Space Agency and NASA to cooperate on Beresheet 2. Like the first mission, SpaceIL projected using philanthropic donations to fund Beresheet 2. However, in May a group of donors announced they were halting future payments to the project after spending 45 million, nearly half its estimated 100 million cost. In a statement representing the donors, Morris Kahn, a billionaire who also supported the original Beresheet mission, said the decision to halt future payments was not related to any problems with Beresheet 2. SpaceIL said at the time it would seek alternative funding to continue the mission, but has provided no updates on those efforts since then. In a June 27 presentation at the European Lunar Symposium, Dan Blumberg, chairman of the Israel Space Agency, said work on Beresheet 2 was continuing for now.

China’s Landspace reaches orbit with methane-powered Zhuque-2 rocket
 HELSINKI — Chinese private rocket firm Landspace achieved a global first late Tuesday by reaching orbit with a methanefueled rocket. Landspace and Chinese state media announced that the second Zhuque2 reached orbit, making it the first methanefueled globally to reach orbit. The Zhuque2 mission carried no payload and the rocket's first stage was not recovered. The successful launch also makes Landspace the second private Chinese launch firm to reach orbit with a liquid propellant rocket. https:twitter.comCNSAWatcherstatus1679006943698976768 Taken together, the achievements indicate a breakthrough and growing level of maturity in Chinese commercial space launch efforts. Landspace has already begun assembling its third Zhuque2 (Vermillion Bird2), indicating that another launch could come before the end of the year. Space Pioneer says it has multiple orders for launches for the Tianlong2, and aims to launch the Falcon 9class Tianlong3 in the first half of 2024. Future Zhuque2 launches with upgraded second stage engines will be capable of delivering a 6,000kilogram payload capacity to a 200kilometer low Earth orbit (LEO), or 4,000 kilograms to 500kilometer sunsynchronous orbit (SSO), according to Landspace. View from above:https:t.co2pY1F2mgFW pic.twitter.comGDAj7uWqS7— Cosmic Penguin (CosmicPenguin) July 12, 2023 Landspace is one of China's first commercial rocket firms. It is also one of the bestfunded Chinese launch firms, but the company's journey to orbit has not been smooth. Landspace has set up an intelligent manufacturing base in Huzhou, Zhejiang Province and established a 1.5 billion medium and largescale liquid rocket assembly and test plant at Jiaxing, also in Zhejiang. Space Pioneer and other later movers such as OrienSpace are developing larger rockets which are targeting contracts to launch batches of satellites for China's national satellite internet megaconstellation project, named Guowang. The Zhuque2 launch was China's 27th orbital mission of 2023, with a total of more than 70 launches planned from stateowned main space contractor CASC and commercial players.

